PRADHAN MANTRI UCHCHATAR SHIKSHA PROTSAHAN (PM-USP) YOJANA 
GUIDELINES FOR THE COMPONENT SCHEME –CENTRAL SECTOR 
SCHEME OF SCHOLARSHIP FOR COLLEGE AND 
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS (PM-USP CSSS) 
(Applicable for academic year 2022-23 onwards) 
1. Objective 
To provide financial assistance to meritorious students from poor families to meet a part of their 
day-to-day expenses while pursuing higher studies. 
2. Scope 
The scholarships are awarded by Ministry of Education, Government of India on the basis of results 
of Higher Secondary / Class XII Board Examination. A maximum of 82,000 fresh scholarships per 
annum are provided for pursuing graduate / postgraduate degree in colleges and universities and for 
professional courses, such as Medical, Engineering etc. 
4. Eligibility for Scholarship 
i. Students who are above 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the 
respective Board of Examination in Class XII of 10+2 pattern or equivalent; 
ii. Pursuing regular degree courses and not correspondence or distance mode or pursuing Diploma 
courses; 
iii. Pursuing courses at colleges/institutions recognized by All India Council for Technical 
Education and respective Regulatory Bodies concerned; 
iv. Not availing benefit of any other merit scholarship schemes, State run scholarship schemes, fee 
waiver, reimbursement scheme.
v. Students with gross parental/family income upto ₹ 4.5 lakh per annum are eligible for 
scholarship under the scheme. Income certificate will be required only for the fresh applicants; 
viii. For renewal of scholarship in each year of study, besides getting at least 50% marks in the 
Annual Examination, maintenance of adequate attendance of at least 75%, will also be the 
criteria. Complaints against the student regarding any in disciplined or criminal behaviour 
including any complaints of having indulged in ragging, will lead to forfeiture of scholarship; 
ix. Beneficiaries/ Applicants under the scheme must apply online in the National Scholarships Portal 
(www.scholarships.gov.in) for the fresh/ renewal scholarships. Fresh/Renewal applications sent 
directly to the Ministry of Education shall not be accepted. 
6. Procedure for Application 
ii. National Scholarships Portal (NSP) (www.scholarships.gov.in) will provide the timelines for 
opening & closing of the portal. 
7. Rate and Duration of Scholarship (from financial year 2022-23) 
The rate of scholarship is ₹12,000/-per annum at Graduation level for first three years of College and 
University courses and ₹20,000/-per annum at Post-Graduation level. Students pursuing professional 
courses, in case, where the duration of course is five (5) years/Integrated course will get 
₹20,000/-per annum in the 4th and 5th year. However, students pursuing technical courses such as 
B.Tech, B.Engg. will get scholarship up to graduation level only i.e. ₹ 12,000 p.a. for 1st, 2nd and 
3
rd year and ₹20,000 in the 4th year. 
Note: The rate of scholarship is ₹10,000/-per annum for first three years of fresh/ renewal 
scholarships with respect to academic year 2021-22, even if the actual release happens in FY 2022-
23. 
8. Payment of Scholarship 
Students are required to have the bank accounts opened, especially, in their name for availing the 
benefits under the scheme. The scholarship will be disbursed directly into the savings bank accounts 
of the beneficiaries through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) 
mode.
